Mustafa bouti is Secretary General at
the Palestinian national initiative and
joins us here on set in Doha good to
speak to you um would you agree first of
all that this was indeed an intentional
targeted attack against Aid workers at
World Central Kitchen in Gaza absolutely
because the facts are clear you are
talking about uh conoy of Aid workers
who had coordinated with Israelis and
the Israelis knew that they were passing
through that area it was three separate
cars and each of them was hit by a
different air strike so clearly this was
intentional and even it was planned and
uh the arrogance in which Netanyahu
commented on this on this matter is very
clear he was talking about the death of
these innocent people smiling and at the
same time saying things like that happen
in the war and at the same time denying
that it was intentional without even
investigating the matter so in reality I
think this was an intentional attack
which has very clear aim which is to
dismiss uh International Aid workers to
force them to to frighten them so that
they would not come to Gaza and his main
goal is to prevent aid from reaching the
people in Gaza because his original and
continuous goal is still the same to try
to ethnically CL cleanse all the people
of Gaza but maybe the death of six
Internationals will bring some attention
now by many countries to the fact that
1796 Aid workers Palestinian Aid workers
were killed many of whom worked for
international organizations
340 medical doctors nurses and health
professionals of our colleagues were
also killed and 40,000 Palestinians
killed if we count those under the rebel
M this is
absolutely absolutely unacceptable it is
an act of genocide what do you make of
the world reaction to it so far do you
feel that there this is a point this is
a turning point no no no and I'm I'm so
shocked that countries like Australia
with all due respect Australia Britain
Poland did not even condemn the attack
for God's sake these are their citizens
they didn't dare to condemn the attack
of Israel and United States
Representatives Mr
blinkin he had the guts to say when he
was discussing this matter that we must
make sure that Israel has the ability to
defend itself Israel is not defending
itself Israel is attacking Palestinians
and attacking
Internationals and uh the spokesperson
of the National Security Council also
had the the American had the guts to say
that we don't have proofs that it was
intentional so they're already taking
sides and they are already try trying to
cover up for Israel and what we see here
is a horrible double standard compare
that with their behavior when Israel
claimed without proving that some horaa
workers cooperated with Hamas and
immediately all these countries shut off
funding of onoa come on this is the most
Clear Proof of a very bad double
standard that is followed by many
Western governments and by doing so they
are encouraging Israel to commit these
crimes and encouraging Israel to be
above the law and above international
law this is on the same day or around
the same 24-hour period that we also saw
Israel targeting a diplomatic mission in
Syria Iran's diplomatic Mission also
taking moves to ban Al jazer within
Israel stifling Free Speech a
Cornerstone of democracy it seems that
it is ramping up these efforts to push
the International Community and yet
we're still not hearing anything to stop
it what is the dangers of it acting with
such impunity the very big danger and
immediate danger is that they will
conduct this terrible massacre in RAF
and they can do it and they will do it
unless something happens immediately to
impose sanctions on Israel and that
would mean the largest massacre in
modern history the other thing is that
they will continue to try to push
Palestinians out of Gaza into Sinai and
this would be the worst First Act of
ethnic cleansing there has to be
immediate action and the only thing that
will stop Israel is is sanctions
sanctions have to be imposed on Israel
including preventing supplies of
military equipment and Military like
Canada did and uh and uh and also taking
other sanctions on isra look Israel is
now not only killing people but also it
is violating the United Nations security
Council resolution it is violating the
rules rulings of the international court
of justice they don't care I think
somebody should check the sanity of
people like nanaho and his crowd I mean
they're going uh totally out of control
and uh I trust the people I so
appreciate the people who are
demonstrating every day pressuring their
governments and that's what we need more
pressure on governments to immediately
take actions to sanction Israel to force
it to stop this atrocity and this
genocide as we have you here Mr bichi I
wanted to ask you or take this
opportunity to ask you about the
Palestinians request for full un
membership they are now asking for an
April vote on that do you think first of
all they'll get it and if so will it
make any difference at this time uh it's
good to get it because it's good to have
a a recognition of Palestine as a state
by the United Nations security Council
of course because we had that in the
general assembly already the question is
what whether the security Council will
will approve it and will the united
states allow that or not but it wouldn't
make a big difference actually and I am
worried that this could be used as a
substitute to stop this atrocity in Gaza
that should not be acceptable this is
not enough and uh that's why I say the
most important thing now is to impose
ceasefire to force Israel to have
ceasefire to stop the genocide that is
happening in Gaza and then enforce a
real true process uh when they speak
about a state they should say which
state on which borders you can't have a
state with all these settlements in the
in the West Bank so that that's why I
think when people speak about
recognition or two-state solution I I
don't take it as serious unless it is
associated with demanding Israeli end of
occupation since 1967 of all territories
second demanding Israeli Seas of s
activities and removal of settlements
from occupied territories without these
three conditions there will never be a
Palestinian State stti very good to
speak to you thank you for taking the
time to come into the studio here in
Doha now hundreds of Israelis have
stormed barriers in West Jerusalem
whilst protesting against prime minister
Benjamin netanyahu's handling of the war
on Gaza fighting broke out between
demonstrators and police officers who
had blocked entrances to the government
headquarters and nyah's home
families of captives being held in Gaza
were amongst large crowds of people
demanding early elections and a prisoner
exchange deal it marks the fourth
consecutive night of
protests for 6 months we're fighting a
war and losing it and I think the only
way we can win the war is to have
elections and to give the people the
opportunity to choose again and to bring
the hostages home and to bring the
soldiers home and that's why I'm here
let's bring in Rory Chalin now he's an
occupied East Jerusalem so Rory we saw
the mood turned somewhat ugly amongst
demonstrators there on during this night
of
protests yeah we've just seen some of
the footage there haven't we that shown
on Israeli TV and shared on social media
of protesters scuffling with police
trying to break down barricades other
pictures showing the uh groups of police
trying to detain protesters and other
protesters coming to defend them and
scuffles breaking out there too now the
protests themselves uh started on uh
Sunday night uh and have been planned
for four nights uh perhaps going on
longer than that there is now a tent
encampment uh in uh Western Jerusalem
outside the knesset outside Benjamin
nessah who's residence as well what do
these people want well they hate
Benjamin Netanyahu they want him out of
office they want him to call uh early
elections they also want to stop
parliamentarians going on Passover
recess in about a week's time saying
that this is no time for parli
Parliament to to be going on holiday
essentially and the feelings are running
very very high indeed I can read you a
quote now from ANA zala who's the mother
of Mata who was captured by Hamas on
October 7th and taken into Gaza she says
that Benjamin Netanyahu is a pharaoh who
inflicts a plague upon us a Biblical
reference there we will continue to
pursue you we will burn the country we
will shake the Earth you will not have a
day and you will not have a night as
long as my son has no day and no night
you will not have it either a sign of
how much hatred there is for Benjamin
Netanyahu amongst those protesters
indeed Rory but is there any sign that
the government is feeling this pressure
well it's certainly feeling the pressure
because these protests are growing and
they're getting bigger uh remember that
there were big protests last year as
well about these judicial reforms that
Benjamin netanyahu's government pushed
through and protests went on and royed
the country for month after month after
month the protesters are trying to
reignite uh some of that momentum and
pick up where that left off but Benjamin
Netanyahu knows that if uh elections
were called early he would most likely
lose them he's deeply unpopular all the
polls are saying that it's looking like
a defeat for Benjamin Netanyahu at the
next election people hold him
responsible for the security failures
that led to October the 7th so
understandably from his perspective he
said no way I'm not going to call early
elections I'm staying where I am at the
moment he says that it would be wrong to
call Early elections at a time of War so
it's difficult to see what the mechanism
is at the moment by which protesters can
force him out he doesn't feel I think
under threat enough from the size of
these protests to step down because of
them the only other way that he might
leave office right now is if his
Coalition collapse if parts of uh the
governing coalition from other parties
uh left it and said that they're
abandoning it they don't want him
anymore and at the moment that Coalition
is holding together okay Rory talin
bring us the latest there from occupied
East Jerusalem thanks thanks
Rory